/*NAME        : THARSHINI S
  DATE        : 17-10-2025
  DESCRIPTION : LSB IMAGE STEGANOGRAPHY */     
     
     
                                               Title -> LSB IMAGE STEGANOGRAPHY


   Objective:
        The main objective of this project is to implement a secure data hiding technique called Least Significant Bit (LSB) Image Steganography
     using the C programming language. This project aims to conceal a secret file data within an image file (.bmp) in such a way that the hidden
     information remains invisible to the human eye but can be extracted the hidden secret file later using a decoding process.The goal is to
     enhance data confidentiality during file transfer and digital communication by embedding data securely within image pixels.


    Resources :
    Technologies and Tools Used,
        Technologies and Tools Used
          •	Programming Language: C
          •	Compiler: GCC
          •	IDE: Visual Studio Code
          •	File Type Used: .bmp for image, .txt for secret text file
          •	Header Files Used: encode.h, decode.h, types.h, common.h


    Implementation :
       This project implements two main functionalities:
        •	Encoding hides a secret data inside an image.
        •	Decoding extracts the concealed data from the stego image.

      - The implementation of this project focuses on securely hiding and retrieving secret data within images using 
        Least Significant Bit (LSB) manipulation in C.

      - It begins with the "encoding phase" program reads the image and secret text, checks capacity and hide data bit
        by bit into the image pixels then saves the modified image as a new stego file without changing its visual  
        appearance.

      - In the "decoding phase" program reads this stego image then verifies it using a predefined magic string and 
        extracts the modified bits to reconstruct the original text file. 

      - The entire process involves reading and writing files, performing bit-level operations, validating input data
        and maintaining the image structure and ensuring that the hidden message remains invisible but securely stored.


    Encoding process:
       ./a.out -e beautiful.bmp secret.txt 
       <<<<<Selected Encoding>>>>>
       Read and validation of encode arguments are success!
       Info : Files opened successfully...
       width = 1024
       height = 768
       Secret data can fit into the given image file
       Copied BMP header successfully
       Encoded magic string successfully
       .txt
       Encoded secret file extension size successfully
       Encoded secret file extension successfully
       Encoded secret file size successfully
       Encoded secret file data successfully
       Copied remaining data successfully
       Info : Encoding is success!

    Decoding process:
       ./a.out -d default.bmp decode.txt
       <<<<<Selected Decoding>>>>>
       Read and validation of decode arguments are success!
       Info : Files opened successfully...
       Magic string is matched
       Magic string is decoded successfully
       Decoded secret file extension size successfully
       Decoded secret file extension successfully
       Decoded secret file size is successfully
       Decoded secret file data sucessfully
       Info : Decoding is success!


    Application :
      •	Secure message or document transmission.
      •	Confidential information sharing in digital communication.
      •	Hidden watermarking and copyright information embedding.
      •	Basic practice for cryptography and cyber security learners.

      Example :In a photographic firm can include a watermark in its photographs so that if someone duplicates or 
      shares the photo without permission, the agency can still verify ownership without altering the image's appearance.


    Limitations :
        This project only works with.bmp files which are uncompressed.And large secret files can't be encoded with limited 
      image capacity.Additionally only text files are accepted as secret data.While steganography does not include 
      encryption, thus adding it before embedding can improve security.

    Conclusion :
        This LSB image steganography successfully demonstrates how secret text can be hidden securely within images using simple
      C programming.It provides a basic but effective way to protect confidential information by embedding data invisibly, making 
      it a useful tool for secure communication and copyright protection. In the future, provide support for multiple file types 
      like PNG,JPEG. This makes the steganography tool more useful for real-world applications.




    

   


    

                                            